So, first the admin is recognised and the db is changed via
the maintenance apis change the user to an admin

now the user logins, who is the admin

const token = jwt.sign(
  { userId: user._id, isAdmin: user.isAdmin },  // <-- important: isAdmin included here
  process.env.JWT_SECRET,
  { expiresIn: "1d" }
);

the frontend recognizes the user as an admin
 using a boolean like isAdmin, after checking the payload

everytime the admin reaches the backend, it's guarded and protected


User Signup/Creation (isAdmin stored in DB) 
       ↓
User Login → Backend verifies credentials, generates JWT including isAdmin
       ↓
Frontend receives JWT (with isAdmin)
       ↓
Flutter app shows/hides admin page based on isAdmin
       ↓
User accesses admin page → API calls include JWT in header
       ↓
Backend middleware verifies JWT & checks isAdmin
       ↓
If isAdmin = true → Access granted
Else → Access denied (403 Forbidden)



 2. Is your current JWT + 2FA system bad? Why not OAuth?
If an interviewer asks, “Why didn’t you use OAuth?”, here’s how you could answer:

🔊 Honest, Smart Answer:
"That’s a great question. Initially, I started with a custom JWT-based authentication system because it
 gave me full control and was straightforward to set up for a backend-focused project. Once JWTs were 
 in place, I built a 2FA logic during registration to ensure that a user's identity (ID and email) had a
  verified link, almost mimicking the verification flows you'd expect in OAuth.

If this system were to scale, or if I needed social logins or identity federation, I'd definitely 
consider implementing OAuth2 + OpenID Connect, possibly integrating providers like Google or Microsoft. 
But for this project’s scope, I focused on securely building and understanding the flow myself — it 
helped me learn the internals of identity/auth management rather than abstracting it early."

This gives the vibe of:

You made a tradeoff, not a mistake.
You know what OAuth offers.
You focused on learning deeply, not just plugging in libraries.
And you're aware of what you'd change in a bigger or production-grade app.

🛠️ Bonus: If you want to show growth
Add a note in your README like:

Future Work: Consider replacing custom JWT auth with OAuth2.0 + OpenID Connect for better scalability, 
especially if third-party login support or enterprise-level access control is required.

✅ Bonus: If you want to anticipate a follow-up like:
“What if you needed to support Google login or enterprise SSO in the future?”

I'd probably integrate OAuth2 + OIDC at that point. Since our backend is already using JWTs, 
the transition path would be to treat the ID token or user info from an OAuth provider as the identity
source, then issue our own JWT with internal roles or scopes baked in.
The middleware architecture we use today can mostly stay the same — we'd just swap the identity provider.



NOTes:
✌️ YOUR STORY / DEFENSE POINTS
You can practice saying this:

"I started with JWT because the app was small-scale and needed full control over the user flow. I implemented 2FA logic during registration to ensure a verified link between the user's ID and email. The JWTs allow fast stateless auth, and middleware takes care of role access.

I didn't go with OAuth initially because we didn’t need third-party login or external identity — but I definitely understand its benefits, and I’d consider adding it if we scale or integrate with other systems."

👊 Boom — that sounds professional and practical.

🌱 Bonus: Role-based access?
You might be asked: “How do you handle different roles or permissions?”

Say this:

"After a user is authenticated via JWT, I check their role inside the token payload. My middleware inspects the token and allows or blocks routes based on roles like admin or user.

Roles are assigned in our DB and encoded into the JWT at login. That way, it's stateless and fast."